# LIS 4488 - Network Administration

## Jamel Douglas

### Design Project: Group 12

#### Objectives
As a network administrator, you are in on the ground floor with Acme, which started as a home business selling a variety of technical widgets to a diverse customer base. The owner of Acme is friends with a party who owns an older twelve-story office building. Several spaces on the first floor –including a retail space and two coveted corner offices –were available when the lease was signed, and Acme now occupies part of the first floor of this office building.  Acme also has available a few offices on the fifth floor. See Floor Plans for more details.
Acme is expanding at a phenomenal rate, and it is expected that Acme will eventually need more operating space –there is talk about possible offsite locations The owner is negotiating deals for more retail operations, and contemplating acquiring facilities for both manufacturing and warehousing of the widgets that Acme designs and sells.
For now, however, your task, as the new Acme I/T team is to design a network that can provide the needed capabilities in a reasonably secure fashion and expand as the company does.
At present, Acme’s workflows are as follows:
- Acme has developed a few models of its existing product line, and has a Research and Development (R&D) team thatworks closely with both the Acme executives and with the Marketing department to develop new products. The executives use data from a number of sources, including the Sales department and the Accounting department to determine what sells and what doesn’t,and to predict what will sell, and what won’t. Acme widgets are marketed and sold in a highly competitive industry, so securing R&D, Sales, Marketing, and Accounting data and information is a very high priority for Acme.
- Once Acme places a product on the market, some product is manufactured as a matter of course and shipped to Acme’s existing retail outlet: remember that Acme intends to open a few retail stores very soon, and product will be shipped to those stores on a regular basis. Like the existing store co-located in the existing building, Acme accepts credit cards and customer financial information must be protected.
- Most sales, however, aren’t through bricks-and-mortar retail, but through Acme’s Sales team. Most of them travel to varying degrees,and these salespersons need access to internal resources –customer, contact, and sales management systems, ordering systems, and issue resolution systems –from wherever they happen to be and in a secure fashion. At present, most of the sales staff are using their own personal laptops, and almost all of them want to be able to use tablets, smart phones, and other mobility devices.

Acme also sells some product via advertisements, and customers can call Acme via telephone to place orders for product. Acmemaintains a call center of aproximately twenty people, with six in sales, eight in technical support, and four available for multiple functions. The Call Center sales staff needs data and information access similar to that of the Sales team. The Call Center technical support staff needs data and information pertaining to the more technical aspects of the products, and occasionally work with design staff to resolve particularly trickly problems.
Acme presently sells a modest amount of product via its website, which at the moment is outsourced to a small company that specializes in hosting e-commerce sites. Acme’s officers aren’t particularly pleased with this company, and while finding another hosting firm is probably in the future for Acme, at this time and at the insistence of Acme’s owner, all e-commerce sites and applications are to be moved onsite to the existing Acme facility. About 1000 people per hour visit Acme’s website, and an average of ten orders per hour are placed, with some spikes in activity occurring during late night commercials.
Marketing predicts that traffic will increase by a few orders of magnitude in six months, when Acme releases a revolutionary new product. Since online orders typically involve the use of credit cards and similar instruments, it is absolutely imperative that security measures be put in place.
You will need to procure the servers, network equipment, and telecommunications circuits necessary to support that traffic now and for the next three years.
Once product is ordered, some is shipped to wherever the salespersons happen to be –usually the Acme headquarters itself –but the overwhelming majority of product is drop-shipped directly from the manufacturer to the customer or reseller.Once the customer has the product, he or she may e-mail or call Acme for customer support, or for warrantee returns. Some of these products are rather technical in nature, and Acme executives have expressed a need for a telephone system that eventually has automated voice response capabilities so that customers can be directed to the correct party or check orders, and for integration with the customer management systems.
It isn’t efficient to attempt to answer every question for every possible product use via telephone or e-mail, person-to-person, so Acme is interested in facilitating product training in bulk. The Acme Product Support team wants to build a product support website, with downloadables, interactive help menus, wikis, discussion forums, and online video explaining the features and uses of Acme products.
Acme also has a small classroom facility that is used to train internal staff, partners, and customers who opt to travel in-person to the Acme facility. The lead instructor wants this classroom to be state-of-the-art, with videoconferencing capabilities, projectors, smart boards, and synchronous and asynchronous collaboration.
A few doors down from this classroom is a conference room, which will also need videoconferencing capabilities.

Again, at this time, the owner is adamant about Acme owning as much as its own infrastructure as it can –outsourcing may be a future option, but for now the owner wants all applications –including accounting and sales, research and development, telephony, messaging, and collaboration –hosted completely in-house.
That means that for now all I/T infrastructure must be self-contained.
When Acme leased space in this building, there was found a usable, yet aging, telephone PBX in the room that you will use as a server room. The previoustenant did install a raised floor in the server room, but there is no enterprise UPS, no generator, only two empty equipment racks, some CAT5 cabling and CAT5 patch panels, a CAT3 patch panel for what appears to be a former modem farm, a dry-pipe fire sprinkler system in the ceiling of the server room, and no special server room cooling systems other than the regular HVAC vents and return.
At present, all management, accounting, research and development, outside, Internet, and telephone sales, and product support is conducted from this building. The small retail store in the atrium of this building sells Acme products, although its presence is largely a symbolic gesture based in sentiment; while it shall remain there permanently, the bulk of bricks-and-mortar sales will occur at other locations.
At present, Acme employs at this facility four executives, six persons in accounting (payables and receivables), five product researchers and developers (two of whom prefer to telecommute), fifteen salespersons, four logistics and shipping specialists, twelve telephone product support specialists, and seven staff tasked with miscellaneous functions.
There is also a small product training section consisting of two instructors and an onsite computer classroom with twenty-four student workstations and two instructor workstations.
The building’s owner has expressed a vague interest in having Acme provide some I/T services for the building itself, including possible wireless in the common areas and security functionality. Assume that this facility is located in Tallahassee. This is important when shopping for Telecommunications providers (ISP).


#### Tasks
> Note: LIS 4488 is a fundamental network administration course intended to cover basic networking principles. Nothing presented in this course should be taken as advice as to the sufficiency or adequacy of security measures for any purpose or application, nor advice as to its particular suitability for any given purpose. It is intended solely to make the student aware of some considerations in designing networks. The scenarios presented in this course pertain to fictional organizations, and any score, grade, or comment is intended only to determine, for academic purposes, that the student understands the fundamental concepts required in this course.

- The highest priority at this point will be to get Acme up and running so that the company is able to develop new product, market and sell product, place orders with the manufacturer and maintain a small amount of inventory, have drop-shipped to customers product, support products as needed, and train various stakeholders as needed.
- Review the general floor plan for the building, and familiarize yourself with who and what is situated where.
- The rooms with the A symbol denote spaces leased by Acme. It is up to you to detail exactly what goes into each room.
- Design the network.
- It is not necessary to insert symbols for every single desk, computer, or other device, but it is necessary to detail major devices. For example, in the Conference Room, there must be at least one telephone that has conferencing capabilities, and probably some form of room videoconferencing apparatus.
- There will certainly be several computers in the Research and Development areas, but it isn’t necessary to draw every single computer unless there’s something so special about one that it deserves map space. A summary symbol denoting that “there are x number of y-type computers in this part of the room” and that “they are connected to network device z via CAT xx cable” will suffice. Any engineering and design section probably should have at least one decent plotter, and it’s probably a good idea to include that on your diagram.
- Consider capacity, throughput, and other factors when choosing network devices. For example, a consumer-grade switch that you picked up at a general big box store might have the gigabit copper interfaces that you need to connect up to a dozen workstations, but enterprise networking is more than simply daisy-chaining a series of these switches: you might require other types of interfaces in addition to management capabilities and resiliency features.  You'll also want servers robust enough to handle virtualization hosting and any other needs presented by this exercise. Be mindful of the difference between server architecture and workstation architecture: more CPU cores and memory, better airflow and cooling, redundancy in power suppies and in disk drives, rack mountability, and hot-swap features.
- I will require extensive detail on all server rooms, communication closets, and demarcation rooms. At this stage, you’re going to need routers and firewalls with which to connect the enterprise to the Internet, and an internal LAN infrastructure over which to distribute data. The focus for this course is on servers, however, and on systems and processes.
- You will need several servers on which to host authentication apparatus, file and print sharing, databases, applications, and so forth. Now would be a very good time to start thinking about server virtualization. For this exercise, some degree of oversimplification will be allowed. For example, an enterprise Customer Relationship Management (CRM) system typically has many components, and when integrated with other systemssuch as data mining and call center telephony systems, it isn’t unusual to have over a dozen adjunct and accessory servers in the mix. This is beyond the scope of this course, so a simplified “CRM Application Server” and “CRM Database Server” might suffice. Try to specifty which type of “CRM Application Server” you intend to you, if this is part of your design.
- You'll need systems on which to host files and databases, and in almost all certainty, applications.
- You'll need web servers, both public-facing and private. Some of their content will be static, and some will be dynamic, which means that they'll have to communicate with application servers, databases, and other systems in a secure manner.
- You'll need some means by which users and stakeholders cancommunicate: e-mail, calendaring, voice, conferencing, etc.You'll need to manage servers and workstations, for performance and security, and do so in an efficient manner. These devices will need patching, and virus protection, at a minimum.
- We could literally make an entire semester course out of each systematic component. You'll be exploring in teams a few of these systems in your Team Buildout Projects.
- By the way, Wikipedia has articles on subjects such as “customer relationship management”. These articles are often good for building working vocabularies prior to delving deeper into system concepts


#### General Requirements

The final paper and presentation will consist of the following:
1. Restatement and summarization of the business problem addressed
2. A logical diagram of your designed network, including subnets and servers –with narrative
3. A physical diagram of your designed network, including routers, switches, firewalls, and servers
4. A detail diagram of your server room(s) –with narrative
5. A manifest of components needed to build the system you designed

Each team has been presented the same scenario, and all teams will present the same five work products. What makes this project more than a mere repetition of each team designing the same network is that while presenting each of the four work products, your team will presents its unique set of interpretations, prioritizations, and rationales for deciding to solve the business and technical problems in the way that it did.

In short, your team has been presented with a business problem to solve, and is tasked with answering what, how, why, and by whom.

The key to this assignment is remembering to put the human users and stakeholders and their needs first, and then to design around these needs a systemthat works, works well, and is both affordable and sustainable.